Types Of Graph
1. Null Graph
A graph is known as a null graph if there are no edges in the graph.

2. Trivial Graph
Graph having only a single vertex, it is also the smallest graph possible.

3. Undirected Graph
A graph in which edges do not have any direction. That is the nodes are unordered pairs in the definition of every edge. 

4. Directed Graph
A graph in which edge has direction. That is the nodes are ordered pairs in the definition of every edge.

5. Connected Graph
The graph in which from one node we can visit any other node in the graph is known as a connected graph. 

6. Disconnected Graph
The graph in which at least one node is not reachable from a node is known as a disconnected graph.

7. Regular Graph
The graph in which the degree of every vertex is equal to the other vertices of the graph. Let the degree of each vertex be K then the graph

8. Complete Graph
The graph in which from each node there is an edge to each other node.

9. Cycle Graph
The graph in which the graph is a cycle in itself, the degree of each vertex is 2. 

10. Cyclic Graph
A graph containing at least one cycle is known as a Cyclic graph.

11. Directed Acyclic Graph
A Directed Graph that does not contain any cycle. 

12. Bipartite Graph
A graph in which vertex can be divided into two sets such that vertex in each set does not contain any edge between them

13. Weighted Graph
A graph in which the edges are already specified with suitable weight is known as a weighted graph.
Weighted graphs can be further classified as directed weighted graphs and undirected weighted graphs.

Representation of Graphs
There are two ways to store a graph:

1. Adjacency Matrix
In this method, the graph is stored in the form of the 2D matrix where rows and columns denote vertices. Each entry in the matrix represents the weight of the edge between those vertices. 

2. Adjacency List
This graph is represented as a collection of linked lists. There is an array of pointer which points to the edges connected to that vertex. 

Comparison between Adjacency Matrix and Adjacency List
When the graph contains a large number of edges then it is good to store it as a matrix because only some entries in the matrix will be empty. An algorithm such as Prim’s and Dijkstra adjacency matrix is used to have less complexity.

Action	Adjacency Matrix	Adjacency List
Adding Edge	O(1)	O(1)
Removing and edge	O(1)	O(N)
Initializing	O(N*N)	O(N)

Basic Operations on Graphs
Below are the basic operations on the graph:

Insertion of Nodes/Edges in the graph – Insert a node into the graph.
Deletion of Nodes/Edges in the graph – Delete a node from the graph.
Searching on Graphs – Search an entity in the graph.
Traversal of Graphs – Traversing all the nodes in the graph.
